Chef Infra Client 18.8

Copyright (c) 1987-2025 Progress Software Corporation and/or its subsidiaries
or affiliates. All rights reserved.

Portions of the Products include certain open source and commercial third-party
components listed below ("Third-Party Components"). The authors of the
Third-Party Components require Progress Software Corporation ("PSC") to include
the following notices and additional licensing terms as a condition of PSC's
use of such Third-Party Components. You acknowledge that the authors of the
Third-Party Components have no obligation to provide support to you for the
Third-Party Components or the Product. You hereby undertake to comply with all
licenses related to the applicable Third-Party Components. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary, to the extent that any of the terms and conditions of
the Progress Agreement conflict, vary, or are in addition to the terms and
conditions of the aforementioned third-party licenses for these technologies,
such terms and conditions are offered by PSC alone and not by any other party.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUMMARY OF COMPONENTS:

Vendor Name 			| Product Name 		| Version

Apache License 2.0:
  Adam Edwards                     | wmi-lite                | 1.0.7
  Adam Jacob                       | Chef                    | 18.7.10
  Adam Jacob                       | Chef                    | 18.7.3
  Adam Jacob                       | Chef                    | 18.8.9
  Adam Jacob                       | knife                   | 18.8.13
  Adam Jacob                       | opscode-ohai            | 18.1.3
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.113.0
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.1169.0
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.12.1
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.120.0
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.199.1
  Amazon Web Services              | AWS SDK for Ruby        | 1.3.2
  Amazon Web Services              | aws-sdk-core-ruby       | 3.233.0
  Bob Aman                         | Addressable URI parser  | 2.8.7
  Bob Aman                         | sporkmonger's uuidtools | 2.2.0
  Chef InSpec Core Engineering     | inspec-ruby             | 5.23.6
  Chef InSpec Team                 | inspec/inspec           | 5.23.6
  Chef InSpec Team                 | train-core              | 3.13.4
  Chef InSpec Team                 | train-rest              | 0.5.0
  Chef InSpec Team                 | train-winrm             | 0.4.0
  Chef Software Inc.               | cheffish                | 17.1.8
  Chef Software                    | win32-certstore         | 0.6.16
  Chef Software, Inc               | Chef                    | 18.1.0
  Chef Software, Inc               | chef-telemetry          | 1.1.1
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-archive          | 1.1.7
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-authentication   | 3.0.10
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-cli              | 2.1.8
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-config           | 3.0.27
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-log              | 3.1.2.1
  Chef Software, Inc               | mixlib-shellout         | 3.3.9
  Chef Software, Inc.              | appbundler              | 0.13.4
  Chef Software, Inc.              | chef-zero               | 15.0.21
  Chef Software, Inc.              | chefstyle               | 2.2.3
  Dan Wanek, Paul Morton, Matt…    | chef-winrm              | 2.4.4
  > Wrock, Shawn Neal              |                         |
  Daniel J. Berger                 | ffi-win32-extensions    | 1.0.4
  Daniel J. Berger, Park Heesob    | win32-ipc               | 0.7.0
  Jamie Winsor                     | semverse                | 3.0.2
  John Bellone, Jamie Winsor,…     | ffi-libarchive          | 1.1.14
  > Frank Fischer                  |                         |
  Shawn Neal                       | chef-winrm-elevated     | 1.2.5
  Shawn Neal, Matt Wrock           | chef-winrm-fs           | 1.4.1
  Thom May                         | chef-vault              | 4.2.5
  Thom May, Tim Smith              | cookstyle               | 7.32.8
  Trevor Rowe                      | jmespath rubygems       | 1.6.2
  lamont-granquist                 | libyajl2                | 2.1.0
  tyler-ball                       | license-acceptance      | 2.1.13

Artistic License 2.0:
  Austin Ziegler                                | halostatue/diff-lcs | 1.5.1
  Daniel Berger, Park Heesob                    | win32-process       | 0.10.0
  Daniel J. Berger                              | win32-event         | 0.6.3
  Daniel J. Berger                              | win32-mmap          | 0.4.2
  Daniel J. Berger                              | win32-mutex         | 0.4.3
  Daniel J. Berger, Park Heesob                 | win32-eventlog      | 0.6.3
  Daniel J. Berger, Park Heesob                 | win32-service       | 2.3.2
  Daniel J. Berger, Park Heesob, Hiroshi Hatake | win32-api           | 1.10.1
  Park Heesob, Daniel J. Berger                 | win32-taskscheduler | 2.0.4

BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:
  Aaron Patterson, SHIBATA Hiroshi | fiddle                | 1.1.0
  Akinori MUSHA                    | public_suffix_service | 0.6.20240107
  Akinori MUSHA                    | syslog                | 0.3.0
  Akira Yamada                     | uri                   | 1.0.4
  David Rodriguez, Kent Sibilev,…  | byebug                | 12.0.0
  > Mark Moseley                   |                       |
  James Edward Gray II, Kouhei…    | ruby csv              | 3.3.5
  > Sutou                          |                       |
  Keiju ISHITSUKA                  | mutex_m               | 0.3.0
  Kenta Murata, Zachary Scott,…    | bigdecimal            | 3.3.0
  > Shigeo Kobayashi               |                       |
  Kouhei Sutou                     | ruby/rexml            | 3.4.4
  Martin Bosslet, SHIBATA Hiroshi… | ruby/openssl          | 3.3.0
  > , Zachary Scott, Kazuki…       |                       |
  > Yamaguchi                      |                       |
  Masatoshi SEKI                   | drb                   | 2.2.0
  Minero Aoki, Aaron Patterson     | racc                  | 1.8.1
  NARUSE, Yui                      | net-http              | 0.6.0
  Naotoshi Seo, SHIBATA Hiroshi    | ruby/logger           | 1.5.3
  Park Heesob, Daniel Berger,…     | rb-readline           | 0.5.5
  > Luis Lavena, Connor Atherton   |                       |
  Robert Haines, John Lees-Miller… | RubyZip               | 2.4.1
  > , Alexander Simonov            |                       |
  Shugo Maeda                      | net-ftp               | 0.3.8
  TAKAHASHI Masayoshi, GOTOU…      | webrick               | 1.9.1
  > YUUZOU, Eric Wong              |                       |
  Tadayoshi Funaba                 | date                  | 3.4.1
  Tanaka Akira                     | securerandom          | 0.4.1
  Tanaka Akira                     | timingfuction         | 0.4.1
  Yukihiro Matsumoto               | net-protocol          | 0.2.2
  Yukihiro Matsumoto               | rubygem-benchmark     | 0.4.0
  Yukihiro Matsumoto               | timeout               | 0.4.3
  Yusuke Endoh                     | base64                | 0.2.0

BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License:
  Stefan Lang    | unicode_utils | 1.4.0
  Wayne Meissner | ffi           | 1.16.3

Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication and Certification:
  Adam Palmblad, Eric Hankins,…    | ruby-shadow | 2.5.0
  > Ian Marlier, Jeff Blaine,…     |             |
  > Remi Broemeling, Takaaki…      |             |
  > Tateishi                       |             |

MIT License:
  @technoweenie, @iMacTia, …       | technoweenie's faraday      | 2.14.0
  > @olleolleolle                  |                             |
  Akinori MUSHA, Aaron Patterson,… | http-cookie                 | 1.0.1
  > Eric Hodel, Mike Dalessio      |                             |
  Ammar Ali, Janosch Müller        | regexp_parser               | 2.11.3
  Anthony Williams                 | antw's iniparse             | 1.5.0
  Arnau Siches                     | arnau/iso8601               | 0.13.0
  Austin Ziegler                   | mime-types-data             | 3.2025.0924
  Austin Ziegler                   | ruby-mime-types             | 3.7.0
  Bartosz Blimke                   | webmock                     | 3.25.1
  Ben Bleything, Patrick May       | bleything's plist           | 3.7.2
  Bozhidar Batsov, Jonas…          | rubocop                     | 1.25.1
  > Arvidsson, Yuji Nakayama       |                             |
  Bozhidar Batsov, Jonas…          | rubocop-ast                 | 1.47.1
  > Arvidsson, Yuji Nakayama       |                             |
  Dan Wanek                        | gssapi                      | 1.3.1
  Daniel Harrington                | chef-gyoku                  | 1.5.0
  Daniel Harrington, John…         | savonrb/nori                | 2.7.0
  > Nunemaker, Wynn Netherland     |                             |
  David Chelimsky, Myron Marson,…  | rspec-support               | 3.13.6
  > Jon Rowe, Sam Phippen,…        |                             |
  > Xaviery Shay, Bradley Schaefer |                             |
  David Heinemeier Hansson         | Ruby on Rails               | 7.1.5.2
  David Rodríguez, Gopal Patel     | pry-byebug                  | 3.11.0
  Eric Hodel; Chris Powell;…       | syslog-logger               | 1.6.8
  > Matthew Boeh; Ian Lesperance;… |                             |
  > Dana Danger; Brian Smith;…     |                             |
  > Ashley Martens                 |                             |
  Francois Bernier                 | tomlrb                      | 1.3.0
  Frederick Cheung, Chef Software… | corefoundation              | 0.3.13
  > , Inc.                         |                             |
  Gregor Schmidt                   | structured_warnings         | 0.4.0
  Hiroshi SHIBATA, Eric Hodel,…    | Rake                        | 13.0.4
  > Jim Weirich                    |                             |
  Jamis Buck, Delano Mandelbaum,…  | net-scp                     | 4.1.0
  > Miklós Fazekas                 |                             |
  Jamis Buck, Delano Mandelbaum,…  | net-sftp                    | 4.0.0
  > Miklós Fazekas                 |                             |
  Jamis Buck, Delano Mandelbaum,…  | ruby-net-ssh                | 7.3.0
  > Miklós Fazekas                 |                             |
  Jan Lelis                        | unicode-display_width       | 2.6.0
  Jan van der Pas                  | faraday-net_http            | 3.4.0
  Jeremy Evans, kuwata-lab.com     | erubi                       | 1.13.1
  Jerry D'Antonio, Petr Chalupa,…  | concurrent-ruby             | 1.3.5
  > The Ruby Concurrency Team      |                             |
  Jim Weirich, Aaron Patterson     | jimweirich's builder        | 3.3.0
  John Mair (banisterfiend)        | binding_of_caller           | 1.0.1
  John Mair (banisterfiend)        | debug_inspector             | 1.2.0
  John Mair (banisterfiend)        | method_source               | 1.1.0
  John Mair (banisterfiend)        | pry-stack_explorer          | 0.6.1
  John Mair (banisterfiend),…      | Pry REPL                    | 0.13.0
  > Conrad Irwin, Ryan Fitzgerald… |                             |
  > , Kyrylo Silin                 |                             |
  John Nunemaker                   | jnunemaker's crack          | 0.4.5
  Kaspar Schiess                   | Parslet                     | 2.0.0
  Keith Rarick, geemus (Wesley…    | netrc                       | 0.11.0
  > Beary)                         |                             |
  Kohei Kajimoto, Paul Morton      | rubyntlm                    | 0.6.5
  Kornelius Kalnbach               | rubychan's coderay          | 1.1.3
  Kris Leech                       | wisper                      | 2.0.1
  Lamont Granquist                 | ffi-yajl                    | 2.6.0
  Leah Neukirchen                  | Rack                        | 3.2.2
  Liu Fengyun                      | hashdiff                    | 1.2.1
  Marcin Kulik, Olle Jonsson       | sickill's rainbow           | 3.1.1
  Michael Bleigh, Jerry Cheung     | hashie                      | 5.0.0
  Michael Bleigh, Josh Kalderimis… | multi_json                  | 1.17.0
  > , Erik Berlin, Pavel Pravosud  |                             |
  Michael Grosser                  | grosser's parallel          | 1.27.0
  Mike Perham, Damian Janowski     | connection_pool             | 2.5.4
  Nick Sieger, Samuel Williams,…   | nicksieger's multipart-post | 2.4.1
  > Olle Jonsson, McClain Looney,… |                             |
  > Lewis Cowles, Gustav Ernberg,… |                             |
  > Patrick Davey, Steven…         |                             |
  > Davidovitz, Alex Koppel,…      |                             |
  > Ethan Turkeltaub, Jagtesh…     |                             |
  > Chadha, Jason York, Tohru…     |                             |
  > Hashimoto, Vincent Pell√©,…    |                             |
  > hexfet, Christine Yen, David…  |                             |
  > Moles, Eric Hutzelman, Feuda…  |                             |
  > Nan, Gerrit Riessen, Jan…      |                             |
  > Piotrowski, Jan-Joost…         |                             |
  > Spanjers, Jason Moore, Jeff…   |                             |
  > Hodges, Johannes Wagener,…     |                             |
  > Jordi Massaguer Pla, Lachlan…  |                             |
  > Priest, Leo Cassarani, Lonre…  |                             |
  > Wang, Luke Redpath, Masato…    |                             |
  > Nakamura, Matt Colyer, Mislav… |                             |
  > MarohnicÃÅ, Peter Goldstein,…  |                             |
  > Socrates Vicente, Steffen…     |                             |
  > Grunwald, Takuya Noguchi, Tim… |                             |
  > Barkley                        |                             |
  Pete Gamache                     | fuzzyurl                    | 0.9.0
  Philip Ross                      | TZInfo                      | 2.0.6
  Piotr Murach                     | pastel                      | 0.8.0
  Piotr Murach                     | strings                     | 0.2.1
  Piotr Murach                     | strings-ansi                | 0.2.0
  Piotr Murach                     | tty                         | 0.23.1
  Piotr Murach                     | tty                         | 0.6.0
  Piotr Murach                     | tty-command                 | 0.7.0
  Piotr Murach                     | tty-command                 | 0.9.0
  Piotr Murach                     | tty-cursor                  | 0.7.1
  Piotr Murach                     | tty-screen                  | 0.8.2
  Piotr Murach                     | tty-table                   | 0.12.0
  REST Client Team                 | adamwiggins's rest-client   | 2.1.0
  Ryan Davis                       | minitest                    | 5.25.5
  Samuel Kadolph                   | proxifier2                  | 1.1.0
  Samuel Williams                  | http-accept                 | 2.1.1
  Samuel Williams, James Tucker,…  | rackup                      | 2.2.1
  > Leah Neukirchen, Jeremy Evans… |                             |
  > , Joshua Peek, Megan Batty,…   |                             |
  > Rafael Fran√ßa, Anurag Priyam… |                             |
  > , Max Cantor, Michael…         |                             |
  > Fellinger, Sophie Deziel,…     |                             |
  > Yoshiyuki Hirano, Aaron…       |                             |
  > Patterson, Jean Boussier,…     |                             |
  > Katsuhiko Yoshida, Konstantin… |                             |
  > Haase, Krzysztof Rybka,…       |                             |
  > Martin Hrdlicka, Nick LaMuro,… |                             |
  > Aaron Pfeifer, Akira Matsuda,… |                             |
  > Andrew Bortz, Andrew Hoglund,… |                             |
  > Bas Vodde, Blake Mizerany,…    |                             |
  > Carl Lerche, David Celis,…     |                             |
  > Dillon Welch, Genki Takiuchi,… |                             |
  > Geremia Taglialatela, Hal…     |                             |
  > Brodigan, Hrvoje ≈†imiƒá,…     |                             |
  > Igor Bochkariov, Jeremy…       |                             |
  > Kemper, Joe Fiorini, John…     |                             |
  > Barnette, John Sumsion, Julik… |                             |
  > Tarkhanov, Kang Sheng, Kazuya… |                             |
  > Hotta, Lenny Marks, Loren…     |                             |
  > Segal, Marc-Andr√© Cournoyer,… |                             |
  > Misaki Shioi, Olle Jonsson,…   |                             |
  > Peter Wilmott, Petrik de Heus… |                             |
  > , Richard Schneeman,…          |                             |
  > Ryunosuke Sato, Sean McGivern… |                             |
  > , Stephen Paul Weber, Tadashi… |                             |
  > Saito, Tim Moore, Timur…       |                             |
  > Batyrshin, Trevor Wennblom,…   |                             |
  > Tsutomu Kuroda, Uchio Kondo,…  |                             |
  > Wyatt Pan, Yehuda Katz,…       |                             |
  > Zachary Scott                  |                             |
  Sebastian Cohnen                 | faraday-follow_redirects    | 0.3.0
  Seth Vargo, Tim Smith            | chefspec/fauxhai            | 9.3.0
  Shopify                          | mwunsch's prism             | 1.5.1
  Simone Carletti                  | Ruby Public Suffix          | 6.0.1
  Steven Baker, David Chelimsky,…  | RSpec                       | 3.13.0
  > Myron Marston                  |                             |
  Steven Baker, David Chelimsky,…  | RSpec                       | 3.13.5
  > Myron Marston                  |                             |
  Sven Fuchs, Joshua Harvey, Matt… | ruby-i18n                   | 1.14.7
  > Aimonetti, Stephan Soller,…    |                             |
  > Saimon Moore, Ryan Bigg        |                             |
  Takeru Ohta, Akinori MUSHA       | unf_ext                     | 0.0.8.2
  The RSpec Development Team       | rspec-its                   | 2.0.0
  Tim Pease                        | TwP's logging               | 2.4.0
  Tim Pease                        | little-plugger              | 1.1.4
  Tony Arcieri                     | ed25519                     | 1.4.0
  bluemonk, mikemackintosh         | ipaddress-gem/ipaddress     | 0.8.3
  makoto kuwata                    | erubis                      | 2.7.0
  thekompanee, jfelchner           | jfelchner/ruby-progressbar  | 1.13.0
  thor (1.3.2)                     | Thor                        | 1.3.2
  whitequark                       | ast                         | 2.4.3
  whitequark                       | parser                      | 3.3.9.0

Mozilla Public License 2.0:
  Dominik Richter | sslshake | 1.3.1
  Seth Vargo      | vault    | 0.18.2

Ruby License:
  Daniel Luz       			| JSON for Ruby     	| 2.15.1
  Hiroshi Nakamura 			| nahi's httpclient 	| 2.9.0
  Stephan Maka, Andrey Kouznetsov… 	| Ruby-SOCKSify 	| 1.8.1
  > , Christopher Thorpe, Musy…    	|               	|
  > Bite, Yuichi Tateno, David…    	|               	|
  > Dollar                         	|               	|



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Product contains JSON for Ruby 2.15.1, Ruby-SOCKSify 1.8.1,
halostatue/diff-lcs 1.5.1, nahi's httpclient 2.9.0, sslshake 1.3.1, vault
0.18.2, win32-api 1.10.1, win32-event 0.6.3, win32-eventlog 0.6.3, win32-mmap
0.4.2, win32-mutex 0.4.3, win32-process 0.10.0, win32-service 2.3.2, and
win32-taskscheduler 2.0.4. These third-party technologies are licensed to PSC
and User is subject to the terms of a third-party license, a copy of which is
included herein. PSC will, at Licensee's request, provide a copy of the source code for this third-party technology, including modifications, if any, made by PSC. PSC may charge reasonable shipping and handling charges for such
distribution. Licensee may also obtain the source code for these third-party
technologies through http://iue.progress.com/3dpartysoftwares/Pages/default.aspx
by following the instructions set forth therein.

1. Special Notices Regarding Open-Source Third-Party Components incorporated
into the Product. Such technology is subject to the following terms and
conditions:

(1) Apache License 2.0:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates AWS SDK for Ruby 1.113.0, AWS SDK for Ruby
1.1169.0, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.12.1, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.120.0, AWS SDK for Ruby
1.199.1, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.3.2, Addressable URI parser 2.8.7, Chef 18.1.0,
Chef 18.7.10, Chef 18.7.3, Chef 18.8.9, appbundler 0.13.4, aws-sdk-core-ruby
3.233.0, chef-telemetry 1.1.1, chef-vault 4.2.5, chef-winrm 2.4.4,
chef-winrm-elevated 1.2.5, chef-winrm-fs 1.4.1, chef-zero 15.0.21, cheffish
17.1.8, chefstyle 2.2.3, cookstyle 7.32.8, ffi-libarchive 1.1.14,
ffi-win32-extensions 1.0.4, inspec-ruby 5.23.6, inspec/inspec 5.23.6, jmespath
rubygems 1.6.2, knife 18.8.13, libyajl2 2.1.0, license-acceptance 2.1.13,
mixlib-archive 1.1.7, mixlib-authentication 3.0.10, mixlib-cli 2.1.8,
mixlib-config 3.0.27, mixlib-log 3.1.2.1, mixlib-shellout 3.3.9, opscode-ohai
18.1.3, semverse 3.0.2, sporkmonger's uuidtools 2.2.0, train-core 3.13.4,
train-rest 0.5.0, train-winrm 0.4.0, win32-certstore 0.6.16, win32-ipc 0.7.0,
and wmi-lite 1.0.7.

  Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004 http://www.apache.org/licenses/

  TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

  1. Definitions.

  "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
  distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

  "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
  copyright owner that is granting the License.

  "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
  entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with
  that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the
  power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
  entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent
  (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of
  such entity.

  "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
  permissions granted by this License.

  "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
  including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and
  configuration files.

  "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
  translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object
  code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

  "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form,
  made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is
  included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix
  below).

  "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form,
  that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial
  revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a
  whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License,
  Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or
  merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative
  Works thereof.

  "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original
  version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
  Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for
  inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal
  Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the
  purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic,
  verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives,
  including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists,
  source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by,
  or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the
  Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
  designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

  "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on
  behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
  incorporated within the Work.

  2. Grant of Copyright License.

  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
  grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
  irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
  publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and
  such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

  3. Grant of Patent License.

  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
  grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
  irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have
  made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
  where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
  Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or
  by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such
  Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any
  entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
  the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or
  contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You
  under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such
  litigation is filed.

  4. Redistribution.

  You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works
  thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object
  form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

  (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy
  of this License; and

  (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
  You changed the files; and

  (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
  distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from
  the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to
  any part of the Derivative Works; and

  (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,
  then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of
  the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those
  notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least
  one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of
  the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided
  along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the
  Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear.
  The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do
  not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within
  Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the
  NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices
  cannot be construed as modifying the License.

  You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may
  provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,
  reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such
  Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
  distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in
  this License.

  5. Submission of Contributions.

  Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally
  submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the
  terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or
  conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or
  modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with
  Licensor regarding such Contributions.

  6. Trademarks.

  This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks,
  service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for
  reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
  reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

  7. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides
  the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS"
  BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
  implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of
  TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of
  using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your
  exercise of permissions under this License.

  8. Limitation of Liability.

  In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including
  negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such
  as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any
  Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect,
  special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
  result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work
  (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
  computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
  losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such
  damages.

  9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability.

  While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to
  offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or
  other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License.
  However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf
  and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and
  only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless
  for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor
  by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Contents of NOTICE text file for AWS SDK for Ruby 1.113.0, AWS SDK for Ruby
1.1169.0, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.12.1, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.120.0, AWS SDK for Ruby
1.199.1, AWS SDK for Ruby 1.3.2, and aws-sdk-core-ruby 3.233.0:

  AWS SDK for Ruby Copyright Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights
  Reserved.

(2) Artistic License 2.0:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates halostatue/diff-lcs 1.5.1, win32-api
1.10.1, win32-event 0.6.3, win32-eventlog 0.6.3, win32-mmap 0.4.2, win32-mutex
0.4.3, win32-process 0.10.0, win32-service 2.3.2, and win32-taskscheduler 2.0.4.

  Copyright (c) 2000-2006, The Perl Foundation.

  Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
  document, but changing it is not allowed.

  Preamble

  This license establishes the terms under which a given free software Package
  may be copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed. The intent is
  that the Copyright Holder maintains some artistic control over the
  development of that Package while still keeping the Package available as open
  source and free software.

  You are always permitted to make arrangements wholly outside of this license
  directly with the Copyright Holder of a given Package. If the terms of this
  license do not permit the full use that you propose to make of the Package,
  you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek a different licensing
  arrangement.

  Definitions

  "Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s) named in the
  copyright notice for the entire Package.

  "Contributor" means any party that has contributed code or other material to
  the Package, in accordance with the Copyright Holder's procedures.

  "You" and "your" means any person who would like to copy, distribute, or
  modify the Package.

  "Package" means the collection of files distributed by the Copyright Holder,
  and derivatives of that collection and/or of those files. A given Package may
  consist of either the Standard Version, or a Modified Version.

  "Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it accessible to
  anyone else, or in the case of a company or organization, to others outside
  of your company or organization.

  "Distributor Fee" means any fee that you charge for Distributing this Package
  or providing support for this Package to another party. It does not mean
  licensing fees.

  "Standard Version" refers to the Package if it has not been modified, or has
  been modified only in ways explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.

  "Modified Version" means the Package, if it has been changed, and such
  changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.

  "Original License" means this Artistic License as Distributed with the
  Standard Version of the Package, in its current version or as it may be
  modified by The Perl Foundation in the future.

  "Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and configuration
  files for the Package.

  "Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary, or any
  other form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of the
  Source form.

  Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution

  (1) You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use Modified
  Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that you do not
  Distribute the Modified Version.

  Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version

  (2) You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the Standard
  Version of this Package in any medium without restriction, either gratis or
  for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate all of the original
  copyright notices and associated disclaimers. At your discretion, such
  verbatim copies may or may not include a Compiled form of the Package.

  (3) You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other modifications
  made available from the Copyright Holder. The resulting Package will still be
  considered the Standard Version, and as such will be subject to the Original
  License.

  Distribution of Modified Versions of the Package as Source

  (4) You may Distribute your Modified Version as Source (either gratis or for
  a Distributor Fee, and with or without a Compiled form of the Modified
  Version) provided that you clearly document how it differs from the Standard
  Version, including, but not limited to, documenting any non-standard
  features, executables, or modules, and provided that you do at least ONE of
  the following:

  (a) make the Modified Version available to the Copyright Holder of the
  Standard Version, under the Original License, so that the Copyright Holder
  may include your modifications in the Standard Version.

  (b) ensure that installation of your Modified Version does not prevent the
  user installing or running the Standard Version. In addition, the Modified
  Version must bear a name that is different from the name of the Standard
  Version.

  (c) allow anyone who receives a copy of the Modified Version to make the
  Source form of the Modified Version available to others under

  (i) the Original License or

  (ii) a license that permits the licensee to freely copy, modify and
  redistribute the Modified Version using the same licensing terms that apply
  to the copy that the licensee received, and requires that the Source form of
  the Modified Version, and of any works derived from it, be made freely
  available in that license fees are prohibited but Distributor Fees are
  allowed.

  Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version or Modified Versions
  without the Source

  (5) You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without the
  Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to get the
  Source of the Standard Version. Such instructions must be valid at the time
  of your distribution. If these instructions, at any time while you are
  carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you must provide new
  instructions on demand or cease further distribution. If you provide valid
  instructions or cease distribution within thirty days after you become aware
  that the instructions are invalid, then you do not forfeit any of your rights
  under this license.

  (6) You may Distribute a Modified Version in Compiled form without the
  Source, provided that you comply with Section 4 with respect to the Source of
  the Modified Version.

  Aggregating or Linking the Package

  (7) You may aggregate the Package (either the Standard Version or Modified
  Version) with other packages and Distribute the resulting aggregation
  provided that you do not charge a licensing fee for the Package. Distributor
  Fees are permitted, and licensing fees for other components in the
  aggregation are permitted. The terms of this license apply to the use and
  Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions as included in the
  aggregation.

  (8) You are permitted to link Modified and Standard Versions with other
  works, to embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to build
  stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that include the
  Package, and Distribute the result without restriction, provided the result
  does not expose a direct interface to the Package.

  Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version

  (9) Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that merely
  extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause the Package
  to be a Modified Version. In addition, such works are not considered parts of
  the Package itself, and are not subject to the terms of this license.

  General Provisions

  (10) Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified
  Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using, modifying or
  distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not use, modify, or
  distribute the Package, if you do not accept this license.

  (11) If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version made
  by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to ensure that your
  Modified Version complies with the requirements of this license.

  (12) This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark, service
  mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

  (13) This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
  patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import and
  otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims licensable
  by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by the Package. If you
  institute patent litigation (including a cross-claim or counterclaim) against
  any party alleging that the Package constitutes direct or contributory patent
  infringement, then this Artistic License to you shall terminate on the date
  that such litigation is filed.

  (14) Disclaimer of Warranty:

  THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
  WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE
  DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW,
  NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
  INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE
  PACKAGE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(3) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rb-readline 0.5.5.

  Copyright  Park Heesob, Daniel Berger, Luis Lavena, Connor Atherton

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(4) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates byebug 12.0.0.

  Copyright  David Rodriguez, Kent Sibilev, Mark Moseley

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(5) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates net-protocol 0.2.2, rubygem-benchmark
0.4.0, and timeout 0.4.3.

  Copyright  Yukihiro Matsumoto

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(6) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates base64 0.2.0.

  Copyright  Yusuke Endoh

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(7) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates uri 1.0.4.

  Copyright  Akira Yamada

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(8) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates drb 2.2.0.

  Copyright  Masatoshi SEKI

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(9) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates racc 1.8.1.

  Copyright  Minero Aoki, Aaron Patterson

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(10) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates fiddle 1.1.0.

  Copyright  Aaron Patterson, SHIBATA Hiroshi

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(11) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby/openssl 3.3.0.

  Copyright  Martin Bosslet, SHIBATA Hiroshi, Zachary Scott, Kazuki Yamaguchi

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(12) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby csv 3.3.5.

  Copyright  James Edward Gray II, Kouhei Sutou

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(13) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates RubyZip 2.4.1.

  Copyright  Robert Haines, John Lees-Miller, Alexander Simonov

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(14) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby/logger 1.5.3.

  Copyright  Naotoshi Seo, SHIBATA Hiroshi

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(15) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates securerandom 0.4.1 and timingfuction 0.4.1.

  Copyright  Tanaka Akira

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(16) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates bigdecimal 3.3.0.

  Copyright  Kenta Murata, Zachary Scott, Shigeo Kobayashi

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(17) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates webrick 1.9.1.

  Copyright  TAKAHASHI Masayoshi, GOTOU YUUZOU, Eric Wong

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(18) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates mutex_m 0.3.0.

  Copyright  Keiju ISHITSUKA

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(19) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates net-ftp 0.3.8.

  Copyright  Shugo Maeda

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(20) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates public_suffix_service 0.6.20240107 and
syslog 0.3.0.

  Copyright  Akinori MUSHA

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(21) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates date 3.4.1.

  Copyright  Tadayoshi Funaba

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(22) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby/rexml 3.4.4.

  Copyright  Kouhei Sutou

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(23) BSD 2-Clause "Simplified" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates net-http 0.6.0.

  Copyright  NARUSE, Yui

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(24) BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates unicode_utils 1.4.0.

  Copyright  Stefan Lang

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
  specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(25) BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ffi 1.16.3.

  Copyright  Wayne Meissner

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
  specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(26) Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication and Certification:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby-shadow 2.5.0.

  The person or persons who have associated work with this document (the
  "Dedicator" or "Certifier") hereby either (a) certifies that, to the best of
  his knowledge, the work of authorship identified is in the public domain of
  the country from which the work is published, or (b) hereby dedicates
  whatever copyright the dedicators holds in the work of authorship identified
  below (the "Work") to the public domain. A certifier, moreover, dedicates any
  copyright interest he may have in the associated work, and for these
  purposes, is described as a "dedicator" below.

  A certifier has taken reasonable steps to verify the copyright status of this
  work. Certifier recognizes that his good faith efforts may not shield him
  from liability if in fact the work certified is not in the public domain.

  Dedicator makes this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to
  the detriment of the Dedicator's heirs and successors. Dedicator intends this
  dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present
  and future rights under copyright law, whether vested or contingent, in the
  Work. Dedicator understands that such relinquishment of all rights includes
  the relinquishment of all rights to enforce (by lawsuit or otherwise) those
  copyrights in the Work.

  Dedicator recognizes that, once placed in the public domain, the Work may be
  freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, used, modified, built upon, or
  otherwise exploited by anyone for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial,
  and in any way, including by methods that have not yet been invented or
  conceived.

(27) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ed25519 1.4.0.

  Copyright  Tony Arcieri

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(28) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates pry-byebug 3.11.0.

  Copyright  David Rodríguez, Gopal Patel

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(29) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates jfelchner/ruby-progressbar 1.13.0.

  Copyright  thekompanee, jfelchner

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(30) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates http-accept 2.1.1.

  Copyright  Samuel Williams

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(31) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates connection_pool 2.5.4.

  Copyright  Mike Perham, Damian Janowski

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(32) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates RSpec 3.13.0 and RSpec 3.13.5.

  Copyright  Steven Baker, David Chelimsky, Myron Marston

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(33) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates chefspec/fauxhai 9.3.0.

  Copyright  Seth Vargo, Tim Smith

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(34) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates TZInfo 2.0.6.

  Copyright  Philip Ross

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(35) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates mime-types-data 3.2025.0924 and
ruby-mime-types 3.7.0.

  Copyright  Austin Ziegler

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(36) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Rake 13.0.4.

  Copyright  Hiroshi SHIBATA, Eric Hodel, Jim Weirich

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(37) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates fuzzyurl 0.9.0.

  Copyright  Pete Gamache

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(38) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates unf_ext 0.0.8.2.

  Copyright  Takeru Ohta, Akinori MUSHA

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(39) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ruby-i18n 1.14.7.

  Copyright  Sven Fuchs, Joshua Harvey, Matt Aimonetti, Stephan Soller, Saimon
  Moore, Ryan Bigg

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(40) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates jimweirich's builder 3.3.0.

  Copyright  Jim Weirich, Aaron Patterson

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(41) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ipaddress-gem/ipaddress 0.8.3.

  Copyright  bluemonk, mikemackintosh

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(42) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Ruby Public Suffix 6.0.1.

  Copyright  Simone Carletti

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(43) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Pry REPL 0.13.0.

  Copyright  John Mair (banisterfiend), Conrad Irwin, Ryan Fitzgerald, Kyrylo
  Silin

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(44) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rackup 2.2.1.

  Copyright  Samuel Williams, James Tucker, Leah Neukirchen, Jeremy Evans,
  Joshua Peek, Megan Batty, Rafael Fran√ßa, Anurag Priyam, Max Cantor, Michael
  Fellinger, Sophie Deziel, Yoshiyuki Hirano, Aaron Patterson, Jean Boussier,
  Katsuhiko Yoshida, Konstantin Haase, Krzysztof Rybka, Martin Hrdlicka, Nick
  LaMuro, Aaron Pfeifer, Akira Matsuda, Andrew Bortz, Andrew Hoglund, Bas
  Vodde, Blake Mizerany, Carl Lerche, David Celis, Dillon Welch, Genki
  Takiuchi, Geremia Taglialatela, Hal Brodigan, Hrvoje ≈†imiƒá, Igor
  Bochkariov, Jeremy Kemper, Joe Fiorini, John Barnette, John Sumsion, Julik
  Tarkhanov, Kang Sheng, Kazuya Hotta, Lenny Marks, Loren Segal, Marc-Andr√©
  Cournoyer, Misaki Shioi, Olle Jonsson, Peter Wilmott, Petrik de Heus, Richard
  Schneeman, Ryunosuke Sato, Sean McGivern, Stephen Paul Weber, Tadashi Saito,
  Tim Moore, Timur Batyrshin, Trevor Wennblom, Tsutomu Kuroda, Uchio Kondo,
  Wyatt Pan, Yehuda Katz, Zachary Scott

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(45) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Ruby on Rails 7.1.5.2.

  Copyright  David Heinemeier Hansson

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(46) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates TwP's logging 2.4.0 and little-plugger
1.1.4.

  Copyright  Tim Pease

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(47) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates net-scp 4.1.0, net-sftp 4.0.0, and
ruby-net-ssh 7.3.0.

  Copyright  Jamis Buck, Delano Mandelbaum, Miklós Fazekas

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(48) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates hashie 5.0.0.

  Copyright  Michael Bleigh, Jerry Cheung

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(49) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates unicode-display_width 2.6.0.

  Copyright  Jan Lelis

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(50) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates http-cookie 1.0.1.

  Copyright  Akinori MUSHA, Aaron Patterson, Eric Hodel, Mike Dalessio

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(51) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates nicksieger's multipart-post 2.4.1.

  Copyright  Nick Sieger, Samuel Williams, Olle Jonsson, McClain Looney, Lewis
  Cowles, Gustav Ernberg, Patrick Davey, Steven Davidovitz, Alex Koppel, Ethan
  Turkeltaub, Jagtesh Chadha, Jason York, Tohru Hashimoto, Vincent Pell√©,
  hexfet, Christine Yen, David Moles, Eric Hutzelman, Feuda Nan, Gerrit
  Riessen, Jan Piotrowski, Jan-Joost Spanjers, Jason Moore, Jeff Hodges,
  Johannes Wagener, Jordi Massaguer Pla, Lachlan Priest, Leo Cassarani, Lonre
  Wang, Luke Redpath, Masato Nakamura, Matt Colyer, Mislav MarohnicÃÅ, Peter
  Goldstein, Socrates Vicente, Steffen Grunwald, Takuya Noguchi, Tim Barkley

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(52) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rspec-its 2.0.0.

  Copyright  The RSpec Development Team

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(53) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates mwunsch's prism 1.5.1.

  Copyright  Shopify

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(54) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Thor 1.3.2.

  Copyright  thor (1.3.2)

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(55) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates structured_warnings 0.4.0.

  Copyright  Gregor Schmidt

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(56) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates wisper 2.0.1.

  Copyright  Kris Leech

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(57) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates concurrent-ruby 1.3.5.

  Copyright  Jerry D'Antonio, Petr Chalupa, The Ruby Concurrency Team

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(58) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates netrc 0.11.0.

  Copyright  Keith Rarick, geemus (Wesley Beary)

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(59) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates jnunemaker's crack 0.4.5.

  Copyright  John Nunemaker

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(60) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Rack 3.2.2.

  Copyright  Leah Neukirchen

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(61) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ast 2.4.3 and parser 3.3.9.0.

  Copyright  whitequark

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(62) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates adamwiggins's rest-client 2.1.0.

  Copyright  REST Client Team

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(63) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Parslet 2.0.0.

  Copyright  Kaspar Schiess

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(64) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rubyntlm 0.6.5.

  Copyright  Kohei Kajimoto, Paul Morton

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(65) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rubocop 1.25.1 and rubocop-ast 1.47.1.

  Copyright  Bozhidar Batsov, Jonas Arvidsson, Yuji Nakayama

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(66) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates antw's iniparse 1.5.0.

  Copyright  Anthony Williams

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(67) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates arnau/iso8601 0.13.0.

  Copyright  Arnau Siches

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(68) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates faraday-net_http 3.4.0.

  Copyright  Jan van der Pas

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(69) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates grosser's parallel 1.27.0.

  Copyright  Michael Grosser

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(70) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates gssapi 1.3.1.

  Copyright  Dan Wanek

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(71) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates bleything's plist 3.7.2.

  Copyright  Ben Bleything, Patrick May

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(72) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates technoweenie's faraday 2.14.0.

  Copyright  @technoweenie, @iMacTia, @olleolleolle

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(73) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rubychan's coderay 1.1.3.

  Copyright  Kornelius Kalnbach

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(74) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates syslog-logger 1.6.8.

  Copyright  Eric Hodel

  Copyright  Chris Powell

  Copyright  Matthew Boeh

  Copyright  Ian Lesperance

  Copyright  Dana Danger

  Copyright  Brian Smith

  Copyright  Ashley Martens

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(75) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates faraday-follow_redirects 0.3.0.

  Copyright  Sebastian Cohnen

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(76) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates binding_of_caller 1.0.1, debug_inspector
1.2.0, method_source 1.1.0, and pry-stack_explorer 0.6.1.

  Copyright  John Mair (banisterfiend)

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(77) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates corefoundation 0.3.13.

  Copyright  Frederick Cheung, Chef Software, Inc.

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(78) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates erubi 1.13.1.

  Copyright  Jeremy Evans, kuwata-lab.com

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(79) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates webmock 3.25.1.

  Copyright  Bartosz Blimke

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(80) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates erubis 2.7.0.

  Copyright  makoto kuwata

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(81) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates minitest 5.25.5.

  Copyright  Ryan Davis

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(82) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates ffi-yajl 2.6.0.

  Copyright  Lamont Granquist

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(83) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates rspec-support 3.13.6.

  Copyright  David Chelimsky, Myron Marson, Jon Rowe, Sam Phippen, Xaviery
  Shay, Bradley Schaefer

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(84) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates proxifier2 1.1.0.

  Copyright  Samuel Kadolph

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(85) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates multi_json 1.17.0.

  Copyright  Michael Bleigh, Josh Kalderimis, Erik Berlin, Pavel Pravosud

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(86) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates savonrb/nori 2.7.0.

  Copyright  Daniel Harrington, John Nunemaker, Wynn Netherland

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(87) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates pastel 0.8.0, strings 0.2.1, strings-ansi
0.2.0, tty 0.23.1, tty 0.6.0, tty-command 0.7.0, tty-command 0.9.0, tty-cursor
0.7.1, tty-screen 0.8.2, and tty-table 0.12.0.

  Copyright  Piotr Murach

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(88) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates tomlrb 1.3.0.

  Copyright  Francois Bernier

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(89) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates regexp_parser 2.11.3.

  Copyright  Ammar Ali, Janosch Müller

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(90) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates sickill's rainbow 3.1.1.

  Copyright  Marcin Kulik, Olle Jonsson

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(91) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates chef-gyoku 1.5.0.

  Copyright  Daniel Harrington

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(92) MIT License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates hashdiff 1.2.1.

  Copyright  Liu Fengyun

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

(93) Mozilla Public License 2.0:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates vault 0.18.2.

  Copyright  Seth Vargo

  1. Definitions

      1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or legal entity that creates,
      contributes to the creation of, or owns Covered Software.

      1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Contributions of
      others (if any) used by a Contributor and that particular Contributor's
      Contribution.

      1.3. "Contribution" means Covered Software of a particular Contributor.

      1.4. "Covered Software" means Source Code Form to which the initial
      Contributor has attached the notice in Exhibit A, the Executable Form of
      such Source Code Form, and Modifications of such Source Code Form, in
      each case including portions thereof.

      1.5. "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses" means

          (a) that the initial Contributor has attached the notice described in
          Exhibit B to the Covered Software; or

          (b) that the Covered Software was made available under the terms of
          version 1.1 or earlier of the License, but not also under the terms
          of a Secondary License.

      1.6. "Executable Form" means any form of the work other than Source Code
      Form.

      1.7. "Larger Work" means a work that combines Covered Software with other
      material, in a separate file or files, that is not Covered Software.

      1.8. "License" means this document.

      1.9. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
      possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently, any
      and all of the rights conveyed by this License.

      1.10. "Modifications" means any of the following:

          (a) any file in Source Code Form that results from an addition to,
          deletion from, or modification of the contents of Covered Software; or

          (b) any new file in Source Code Form that contains any Covered
          Software.

      1.11. "Patent Claims" of a Contributor means any patent claim(s),
      including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in
      any patent Licensable by such Contributor that would be infringed, but
      for the grant of the License, by the making, using, selling, offering for
      sale, having made, import, or transfer of either its Contributions or its
      Contributor Version.

      1.12. "Secondary License" means either the GNU General Public License,
      Version 2.0, the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, the GNU
      Affero General Public License, Version 3.0, or any later versions of
      those licenses.

      1.13. "Source Code Form" means the form of the work preferred for making
      modifications.

      1.14. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
      rights under this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity
      that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For
      purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or
      indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
      contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%)
      of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

  2. License Grants and Conditions

      2.1. Grants

          Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
          non-exclusive license:

          (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by such Contributor to use, reproduce, make
          available, modify, display, perform, distribute, and otherwise
          exploit its Contributions, either on an unmodified basis, with
          Modifications, or as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patent Claims of such Contributor to make, use, sell, offer
          for sale, have made, import, and otherwise transfer either its
          Contributions or its Contributor Version.

      2.2. Effective Date

          The licenses granted in Section 2.1 with respect to any Contribution
          become effective for each Contribution on the date the Contributor
          first distributes such Contribution.

      2.3. Limitations on Grant Scope

          The licenses granted in this Section 2 are the only rights granted
          under this License. No additional rights or licenses will be implied
          from the distribution or licensing of Covered Software under this
          License. Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is
          granted by a Contributor:

          (a) for any code that a Contributor has removed from Covered
          Software; or

          (b) for infringements caused by: (i) Your and any other third party's
          modifications of Covered Software, or (ii) the combination of its
          Contributions with other software (except as part of its Contributor
          Version); or

          (c) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence
          of its Contributions.

          This License does not grant any rights in the trademarks, service
          marks, or logos of any Contributor (except as may be necessary to
          comply with the notice requirements in Section 3.4).

      2.4. Subsequent Licenses

          No Contributor makes additional grants as a result of Your choice to
          distribute the Covered Software under a subsequent version of this
          License (see Section 10.2) or under the terms of a Secondary License
          (if permitted under the terms of Section 3.3).

      2.5. Representation

          Each Contributor represents that the Contributor believes its
          Contributions are its original creation(s) or it has sufficient
          rights to grant the rights to its Contributions conveyed by this
          License.

      2.6. Fair Use

          This License is not intended to limit any rights You have under
          applicable copyright doctrines of fair use, fair dealing, or other
          equivalents.

      2.7. Conditions

          Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4 are conditions of the licenses
          granted in Section 2.1.

  3. Responsibilities

      3.1. Distribution of Source Form

          All distribution of Covered Software in Source Code Form, including
          any Modifications that You create or to which You contribute, must be
          under the terms of this License. You must inform recipients that the
          Source Code Form of the Covered Software is governed by the terms of
          this License, and how they can obtain a copy of this License. You may
          not attempt to alter or restrict the recipients' rights in the Source
          Code Form.

      3.2. Distribution of Executable Form

          If You distribute Covered Software in Executable Form then:

          (a) such Covered Software must also be made available in Source Code
          Form, as described in Section 3.1, and You must inform recipients of
          the Executable Form how they can obtain a copy of such Source Code
          Form by reasonable means in a timely manner, at a charge no more than
          the cost of distribution to the recipient; and

          (b) You may distribute such Executable Form under the terms of this
          License, or sublicense it under different terms, provided that the
          license for the Executable Form does not attempt to limit or alter
          the recipients' rights in the Source Code Form under this License.

      3.3. Distribution of a Larger Work

          You may create and distribute a Larger Work under terms of Your
          choice, provided that You also comply with the requirements of this
          License for the Covered Software. If the Larger Work is a combination
          of Covered Software with a work governed by one or more Secondary
          Licenses, and the Covered Software is not Incompatible With Secondary
          Licenses, this License permits You to additionally distribute such
          Covered Software under the terms of such Secondary License(s), so
          that the recipient of the Larger Work may, at their option, further
          distribute the Covered Software under the terms of either this
          License or such Secondary License(s).

      3.4. Notices

          You may not remove or alter the substance of any license notices
          (including copyright notices, patent notices, disclaimers of
          warranty, or limitations of liability) contained within the Source
          Code Form of the Covered Software, except that You may alter any
          license notices to the extent required to remedy known factual
          inaccuracies.

      3.5. Application of Additional Terms

          You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support,
          indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of
          Covered Software. However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and
          not on behalf of any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear
          that any such warranty, support, indemnity, or liability obligation
          is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify every
          Contributor for any liability incurred by such Contributor as a
          result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.
          You may include additional disclaimers of warranty and limitations of
          liability specific to any jurisdiction.

  4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation

      If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this
      License with respect to some or all of the Covered Software due to
      statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with the
      terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe
      the limitations and the code they affect. Such description must be placed
      in a text file included with all distributions of the Covered Software
      under this License. Except to the extent prohibited by statute or
      regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailed for a
      recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.

  5. Termination

      5.1. The rights granted under this License will terminate automatically
      if You fail to comply with any of its terms. However, if You become
      compliant, then the rights granted under this License from a particular
      Contributor are reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until such
      Contributor explicitly and finally terminates Your grants, and (b) on an
      ongoing basis, if such Contributor fails to notify You of the
      non-compliance by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after You have
      come back into compliance. Moreover, Your grants from a particular
      Contributor are reinstated on an ongoing basis if such Contributor
      notifies You of the non-compliance by some reasonable means, this is the
      first time You have received notice of non-compliance with this License
      from such Contributor, and You become compliant prior to 30 days after
      Your receipt of the notice.

      5.2. If You initiate litigation against any entity by asserting a patent
      infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions,
      counter-claims, and cross-claims) alleging that a Contributor Version
      directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then the rights granted to
      You by any and all Contributors for the Covered Software under Section
      2.1 of this License shall terminate.

      5.3. In the event of termination under Sections 5.1 or 5.2 above, all end
      user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have
      been validly granted by You or Your distributors under this License prior
      to termination shall survive termination.

  6. Disclaimer of Warranty

      Covered Software is provided under this License on an "as is" basis,
      without warranty of any kind, either expressed, implied, or statutory,
      including, without limitation, warranties that the Covered Software is
      free of defects, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose or
      non-infringing. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the
      Covered Software is with You. Should any Covered Software prove defective
      in any respect, You (not any Contributor) assume the cost of any
      necessary servicing, repair, or correction. This disclaimer of warranty
      constitutes an essential part of this License. No use of any Covered
      Software is authorized under this License except under this disclaimer.

  7. Limitation of Liability

      Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether tort (including
      negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall any Contributor, or anyone who
      distributes Covered Software as permitted above, be liable to You for any
      direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
      character including, without limitation, damages for lost profits, loss
      of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and
      all other commercial damages or losses, even if such party shall have
      been informed of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of
      liability shall not apply to liability for death or personal injury
      resulting from such party's negligence to the extent applicable law
      prohibits such limitation. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion
      or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so this exclusion
      and limitation may not apply to You.

  8. Litigation

      Any litigation relating to this License may be brought only in the courts
      of a jurisdiction where the defendant maintains its principal place of
      business and such litigation shall be governed by laws of that
      jurisdiction, without reference to its conflict-of-law provisions.
      Nothing in this Section shall prevent a party's ability to bring
      cross-claims or counter-claims.

  9. Miscellaneous

      This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject
      matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be
      unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
      necessary to make it enforceable. Any law or regulation which provides
      that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter
      shall not be used to construe this License against a Contributor.

  10. Versions of the License

      10.1. New Versions

          Mozilla Foundation is the license steward. Except as provided in
          Section 10.3, no one other than the license steward has the right to
          modify or publish new versions of this License. Each version will be
          given a distinguishing version number.

    10.2. Effect of New Versions

          You may distribute the Covered Software under the terms of the
          version of the License under which You originally received the
          Covered Software, or under the terms of any subsequent version
          published by the license steward.

    10.3. Modified Versions

          If you create software not governed by this License, and you want to
          create a new license for such software, you may create and use a
          modified version of this License if you rename the license and remove
          any references to the name of the license steward (except to note
          that such modified license differs from this License).

      10.4. Distributing Source Code Form that is Incompatible With Secondary
      Licenses

          If You choose to distribute Source Code Form that is Incompatible
          With Secondary Licenses under the terms of this version of the
          License, the notice described in Exhibit B of this License must be
          attached.

(94) Mozilla Public License 2.0:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates sslshake 1.3.1.

  Copyright  Dominik Richter

  1. Definitions

      1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or legal entity that creates,
      contributes to the creation of, or owns Covered Software.

      1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Contributions of
      others (if any) used by a Contributor and that particular Contributor's
      Contribution.

      1.3. "Contribution" means Covered Software of a particular Contributor.

      1.4. "Covered Software" means Source Code Form to which the initial
      Contributor has attached the notice in Exhibit A, the Executable Form of
      such Source Code Form, and Modifications of such Source Code Form, in
      each case including portions thereof.

      1.5. "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses" means

          (a) that the initial Contributor has attached the notice described in
          Exhibit B to the Covered Software; or

          (b) that the Covered Software was made available under the terms of
          version 1.1 or earlier of the License, but not also under the terms
          of a Secondary License.

      1.6. "Executable Form" means any form of the work other than Source Code
      Form.

      1.7. "Larger Work" means a work that combines Covered Software with other
      material, in a separate file or files, that is not Covered Software.

      1.8. "License" means this document.

      1.9. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
      possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently, any
      and all of the rights conveyed by this License.

      1.10. "Modifications" means any of the following:

          (a) any file in Source Code Form that results from an addition to,
          deletion from, or modification of the contents of Covered Software; or

          (b) any new file in Source Code Form that contains any Covered
          Software.

      1.11. "Patent Claims" of a Contributor means any patent claim(s),
      including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in
      any patent Licensable by such Contributor that would be infringed, but
      for the grant of the License, by the making, using, selling, offering for
      sale, having made, import, or transfer of either its Contributions or its
      Contributor Version.

      1.12. "Secondary License" means either the GNU General Public License,
      Version 2.0, the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, the GNU
      Affero General Public License, Version 3.0, or any later versions of
      those licenses.

      1.13. "Source Code Form" means the form of the work preferred for making
      modifications.

      1.14. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
      rights under this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity
      that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For
      purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or
      indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
      contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%)
      of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

  2. License Grants and Conditions

      2.1. Grants

          Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
          non-exclusive license:

          (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by such Contributor to use, reproduce, make
          available, modify, display, perform, distribute, and otherwise
          exploit its Contributions, either on an unmodified basis, with
          Modifications, or as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patent Claims of such Contributor to make, use, sell, offer
          for sale, have made, import, and otherwise transfer either its
          Contributions or its Contributor Version.

      2.2. Effective Date

          The licenses granted in Section 2.1 with respect to any Contribution
          become effective for each Contribution on the date the Contributor
          first distributes such Contribution.

      2.3. Limitations on Grant Scope

          The licenses granted in this Section 2 are the only rights granted
          under this License. No additional rights or licenses will be implied
          from the distribution or licensing of Covered Software under this
          License. Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is
          granted by a Contributor:

          (a) for any code that a Contributor has removed from Covered
          Software; or

          (b) for infringements caused by: (i) Your and any other third party's
          modifications of Covered Software, or (ii) the combination of its
          Contributions with other software (except as part of its Contributor
          Version); or

          (c) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence
          of its Contributions.

          This License does not grant any rights in the trademarks, service
          marks, or logos of any Contributor (except as may be necessary to
          comply with the notice requirements in Section 3.4).

      2.4. Subsequent Licenses

          No Contributor makes additional grants as a result of Your choice to
          distribute the Covered Software under a subsequent version of this
          License (see Section 10.2) or under the terms of a Secondary License
          (if permitted under the terms of Section 3.3).

      2.5. Representation

          Each Contributor represents that the Contributor believes its
          Contributions are its original creation(s) or it has sufficient
          rights to grant the rights to its Contributions conveyed by this
          License.

      2.6. Fair Use

          This License is not intended to limit any rights You have under
          applicable copyright doctrines of fair use, fair dealing, or other
          equivalents.

      2.7. Conditions

          Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4 are conditions of the licenses
          granted in Section 2.1.

  3. Responsibilities

      3.1. Distribution of Source Form

          All distribution of Covered Software in Source Code Form, including
          any Modifications that You create or to which You contribute, must be
          under the terms of this License. You must inform recipients that the
          Source Code Form of the Covered Software is governed by the terms of
          this License, and how they can obtain a copy of this License. You may
          not attempt to alter or restrict the recipients' rights in the Source
          Code Form.

      3.2. Distribution of Executable Form

          If You distribute Covered Software in Executable Form then:

          (a) such Covered Software must also be made available in Source Code
          Form, as described in Section 3.1, and You must inform recipients of
          the Executable Form how they can obtain a copy of such Source Code
          Form by reasonable means in a timely manner, at a charge no more than
          the cost of distribution to the recipient; and

          (b) You may distribute such Executable Form under the terms of this
          License, or sublicense it under different terms, provided that the
          license for the Executable Form does not attempt to limit or alter
          the recipients' rights in the Source Code Form under this License.

      3.3. Distribution of a Larger Work

          You may create and distribute a Larger Work under terms of Your
          choice, provided that You also comply with the requirements of this
          License for the Covered Software. If the Larger Work is a combination
          of Covered Software with a work governed by one or more Secondary
          Licenses, and the Covered Software is not Incompatible With Secondary
          Licenses, this License permits You to additionally distribute such
          Covered Software under the terms of such Secondary License(s), so
          that the recipient of the Larger Work may, at their option, further
          distribute the Covered Software under the terms of either this
          License or such Secondary License(s).

      3.4. Notices

          You may not remove or alter the substance of any license notices
          (including copyright notices, patent notices, disclaimers of
          warranty, or limitations of liability) contained within the Source
          Code Form of the Covered Software, except that You may alter any
          license notices to the extent required to remedy known factual
          inaccuracies.

      3.5. Application of Additional Terms

          You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support,
          indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of
          Covered Software. However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and
          not on behalf of any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear
          that any such warranty, support, indemnity, or liability obligation
          is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify every
          Contributor for any liability incurred by such Contributor as a
          result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.
          You may include additional disclaimers of warranty and limitations of
          liability specific to any jurisdiction.

  4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation

      If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this
      License with respect to some or all of the Covered Software due to
      statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with the
      terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe
      the limitations and the code they affect. Such description must be placed
      in a text file included with all distributions of the Covered Software
      under this License. Except to the extent prohibited by statute or
      regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailed for a
      recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.

  5. Termination

      5.1. The rights granted under this License will terminate automatically
      if You fail to comply with any of its terms. However, if You become
      compliant, then the rights granted under this License from a particular
      Contributor are reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until such
      Contributor explicitly and finally terminates Your grants, and (b) on an
      ongoing basis, if such Contributor fails to notify You of the
      non-compliance by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after You have
      come back into compliance. Moreover, Your grants from a particular
      Contributor are reinstated on an ongoing basis if such Contributor
      notifies You of the non-compliance by some reasonable means, this is the
      first time You have received notice of non-compliance with this License
      from such Contributor, and You become compliant prior to 30 days after
      Your receipt of the notice.

      5.2. If You initiate litigation against any entity by asserting a patent
      infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions,
      counter-claims, and cross-claims) alleging that a Contributor Version
      directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then the rights granted to
      You by any and all Contributors for the Covered Software under Section
      2.1 of this License shall terminate.

      5.3. In the event of termination under Sections 5.1 or 5.2 above, all end
      user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have
      been validly granted by You or Your distributors under this License prior
      to termination shall survive termination.

  6. Disclaimer of Warranty

      Covered Software is provided under this License on an "as is" basis,
      without warranty of any kind, either expressed, implied, or statutory,
      including, without limitation, warranties that the Covered Software is
      free of defects, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose or
      non-infringing. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the
      Covered Software is with You. Should any Covered Software prove defective
      in any respect, You (not any Contributor) assume the cost of any
      necessary servicing, repair, or correction. This disclaimer of warranty
      constitutes an essential part of this License. No use of any Covered
      Software is authorized under this License except under this disclaimer.

  7. Limitation of Liability

      Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether tort (including
      negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall any Contributor, or anyone who
      distributes Covered Software as permitted above, be liable to You for any
      direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
      character including, without limitation, damages for lost profits, loss
      of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and
      all other commercial damages or losses, even if such party shall have
      been informed of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of
      liability shall not apply to liability for death or personal injury
      resulting from such party's negligence to the extent applicable law
      prohibits such limitation. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion
      or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so this exclusion
      and limitation may not apply to You.

  8. Litigation

      Any litigation relating to this License may be brought only in the courts
      of a jurisdiction where the defendant maintains its principal place of
      business and such litigation shall be governed by laws of that
      jurisdiction, without reference to its conflict-of-law provisions.
      Nothing in this Section shall prevent a party's ability to bring
      cross-claims or counter-claims.

  9. Miscellaneous

      This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject
      matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be
      unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
      necessary to make it enforceable. Any law or regulation which provides
      that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter
      shall not be used to construe this License against a Contributor.

  10. Versions of the License

      10.1. New Versions

          Mozilla Foundation is the license steward. Except as provided in
          Section 10.3, no one other than the license steward has the right to
          modify or publish new versions of this License. Each version will be
          given a distinguishing version number.

    10.2. Effect of New Versions

          You may distribute the Covered Software under the terms of the
          version of the License under which You originally received the
          Covered Software, or under the terms of any subsequent version
          published by the license steward.

    10.3. Modified Versions

          If you create software not governed by this License, and you want to
          create a new license for such software, you may create and use a
          modified version of this License if you rename the license and remove
          any references to the name of the license steward (except to note
          that such modified license differs from this License).

      10.4. Distributing Source Code Form that is Incompatible With Secondary
      Licenses

          If You choose to distribute Source Code Form that is Incompatible
          With Secondary Licenses under the terms of this version of the
          License, the notice described in Exhibit B of this License must be
          attached.

(95) Ruby License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates JSON for Ruby 2.15.1.

  Copyright  Daniel Luz

  1. You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the
  software without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the original
  copyright notices and associated disclaimers.

  2. You may modify your copy of the software in any way, provided that you do
  at least ONE of the following:

      a) place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them
      Freely Available, such as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an
      equivalent medium, or by allowing the author to include your
      modifications in the software.

      b) use the modified software only within your corporation or organization.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  3. You may distribute the software in object code or binary form, provided
  that you do at least ONE of the following:

      a) distribute the binaries and library files of the software, together
      with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get the
      original distribution.

      b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the
      software.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  4. You may modify and include the part of the software into any other
  software (possibly commercial). But some files in the distribution are not
  written by the author, so that they are not under these terms.

  For the list of those files and their copying conditions, see the file LEGAL.

  5. The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output
  from the software do not automatically fall under the copyright of the
  software, but belong to whomever generated them, and may be sold
  commercially, and may be aggregated with this software.

  6. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

(96) Ruby License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates nahi's httpclient 2.9.0.

  Copyright  Hiroshi Nakamura

  1. You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the
  software without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the original
  copyright notices and associated disclaimers.

  2. You may modify your copy of the software in any way, provided that you do
  at least ONE of the following:

      a) place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them
      Freely Available, such as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an
      equivalent medium, or by allowing the author to include your
      modifications in the software.

      b) use the modified software only within your corporation or organization.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  3. You may distribute the software in object code or binary form, provided
  that you do at least ONE of the following:

      a) distribute the binaries and library files of the software, together
      with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get the
      original distribution.

      b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the
      software.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  4. You may modify and include the part of the software into any other
  software (possibly commercial). But some files in the distribution are not
  written by the author, so that they are not under these terms.

  For the list of those files and their copying conditions, see the file LEGAL.

  5. The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output
  from the software do not automatically fall under the copyright of the
  software, but belong to whomever generated them, and may be sold
  commercially, and may be aggregated with this software.

  6. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

(97) Ruby License:

Chef Infra Client 18.8 incorporates Ruby-SOCKSify 1.8.1.

  Copyright Stephan Maka, Andrey Kouznetsov, Christopher Thorpe, Musy Bite, Yuichi Tateno, David Dollar      

  1. You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the
  software without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the original
  copyright notices and associated disclaimers.

  2. You may modify your copy of the software in any way, provided that you do
  at least ONE of the following:

      a) place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them
      Freely Available, such as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an
      equivalent medium, or by allowing the author to include your
      modifications in the software.

      b) use the modified software only within your corporation or organization.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  3. You may distribute the software in object code or binary form, provided
  that you do at least ONE of the following:

      a) distribute the binaries and library files of the software, together
      with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get the
      original distribution.

      b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the
      software.

      c) give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with instructions on
      where to get the original software distribution.

      d) make other distribution arrangements with the author.

  4. You may modify and include the part of the software into any other
  software (possibly commercial). But some files in the distribution are not
  written by the author, so that they are not under these terms.

  For the list of those files and their copying conditions, see the file LEGAL.

  5. The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output
  from the software do not automatically fall under the copyright of the
  software, but belong to whomever generated them, and may be sold
  commercially, and may be aggregated with this software.

  6. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

NOTICE FROM PROGRESS SOFTWARE CORPORATION: Additional notices may be included
in the release notes or other documentation that accompanies updates received
in connection with support of the Product.

Updated October 13, 2025


