chef-expander(8) -- fetches messages from RabbitMQ, processes, and loads into chef-solr
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__chef-expander__ _(options)_

  * `-c`, `--config CONFIG_FILE`:
    a configuration file to use
  * `-i`, `--index INDEX`:
    the slot this node will occupy in the ring
  * `-n`, `--node-count NUMBER`:
    the number of nodes in the ring
  * `-l`, `--log-level LOG_LEVEL`:
    set the log level
  * `-L`, `--logfile LOG_LOCATION`:
    Logfile to use
  * `-d`, `--daemonize`:
    fork into the background
  * `-P`, `--pid PIDFILE`:
    PID file
  * `-h`, `--help`:
    show help message
  * `-v`, `--version`:
    show the version and exit

## DESCRIPTION

Chef Expander fetches messages from RabbitMQ, processes them into the
correct format to be loaded into Solr and loads them into Solr.

__Running Chef Expander__

Chef Expander is designed for clustered operation, though small
installations will only need one worker process. To run Chef
Expander with one worker process, run chef-expander -n 1.
You will then have a master and worker process, which looks like
this in ps:

    your-shell> ps aux|grep expander
    you   52110   0.1  0.7  2515476  62748 s003  S+    3:49PM   0:00.80 chef-expander worker #1 (vnodes 0-1023)
    you   52108   0.1  0.5  2492880  41696 s003  S+    3:49PM   0:00.91 ruby bin/chef-expander -n 1

Workers are single threaded and therefore cannot use more than 100%
of a single CPU. If you find that your queues are getting backlogged,
increase the number of workers

__Design__

Chef Expander uses 1024 queues (called vnodes in some places) to allow
you to scale the number of Chef Expander workers to meet the needs of
your infrastructure. When objects are saved in the API server, they are
added to queues based on their database IDs. These queues can be assigned
to different Chef Expander workers to distribute the load of processing
the index updates.

__Chef Expander Operation and Troubleshooting__

Chef Expander includes chef-expanderctl, a management program that allows
you to get status information or change the logging verbosity (without
restarting).

See __chef-expanderctl__(8) for details.

## SEE ALSO

__chef-expanderctl__(8)
__chef-solr__(8)

Full documentation for Chef and chef-server is located on the Chef
wiki, http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home.

## AUTHOR

Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@ospcode.com> of Opscode
(http://www.opscode.com),  with contributions from the community. This
manual page was created by Nuo Yan <nuo@opscode.com>. Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the
terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the Apache 2.0 License  can  be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses/Apache-2.0.