knife-environment(1) -- Define cookbook policies for the environments in your infrastructure
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __environment__ _sub-command_ _(options)_

## SUBCOMMANDS
Environment subcommands follow a basic create, read, update, delete
(CRUD) pattern. The following subcommands are available:

## CREATE
__knife environment create__ _environment_ _(options)_

  * `-d`, `--description DESCRIPTION`:
    The value of the description field.

Create a new environment object on the Chef Server. The envrionment will
be opened in the text editor for editing prior to creation if the -n
option is not present.

## DELETE
__knife environment delete__ _environment_ _(options)_

Destroy an environment on the Chef Server. A prompt for confirmation
will be displayed if the -y options is not given.

## EDIT
__knife environment edit__ _environment_ _(options)_

Fetch _environment_ and display it in the text editor for editing. The
environment will be saved to the Chef Server when the editing session
exits.

## FROM FILE
__knife environment from file__ _file_ _(options)_

Create or update an environment from the JSON or Ruby format _file_. See
__format__ for the proper format of this file.

## LIST
__knife environment list__ _(options)_
  * `-w`, `--with-uri`:
    Show the resource URI for each environment

## SHOW
__knife environment show__ _environment_ _(options)_

## DESCRIPTION
Environments provide a means to apply policies to hosts in your
infrastructure based on business function. For example, you may have a
separate copy of your infrastructure called "dev" that runs the latest
version of your application and should use the newest versions of your
cookbooks when configuring systems, and a production instance of your
infrastructure where you wish to update code and cookbooks in a more
controlled fashion. In Chef, this function is implemented with
_environments_.

Environments contain two major components: a set of cookbook version
constraints and environment attributes.

## SYNTAX
A cookbook version constraint is comprised of a _cookbook name_ and a
_version constraint_. The _cookbook name_ is the name of a cookbook in
your system, and the _version constraint_ is a String describing the
version(s) of that cookbook allowed in the environment.  Only one
_version constraint_ is supported for a given _cookbook name_.

The exact syntax used to define a cookbook version constraint varies
depending on whether you use the JSON format or the Ruby format. In the
JSON format, the cookbook version constraints for an environment are
represented as a single JSON object, like this:

    {"apache2": ">= 1.5.0"}

In the Ruby format, the cookbook version constraints for an environment
are represented as a Ruby Hash, like this:

    {"apache2" => ">= 1.5.0"}

A _version number_ is a String comprised of two or three digits
separated by a dot (.) character, or in other words, strings of the form
"major.minor" or "major.minor.patch". "1.2" and "1.2.3" are examples of
valid version numbers. Version numbers containing more than three digits
or alphabetic characters are not supported.

A _version constraint_ String is composed of an _operator_ and a
_version number_. The following operators are available:

  * `= VERSION`:
    Equality. Only the exact version specified may be used.
  * `> VERSION`:
    Greater than. Only versions greater than `VERSION` may be used.
  * `>= VERSION`:
    Greater than or equal to. Only versions equal to VERSION or greater
    may be used.
  * `< VERSION`:
    Less than. Only versions less than VERSION may be used.
  * `<= VERSION`:
    Less than or equal to. Only versions lesser or equal to VERSION may
    be used.
  * `~> VERSION`:
    Pessimistic greater than. Depending on the number of components in
    the given VERSION, the constraint will be optimistic about future
    minor or patch revisions only. For example, `~> 1.1` will match any
    version less than `2.0` and greater than or equal to `1.1.0`,
    whereas `~> 2.0.5` will match any version less than `2.1.0` and
    greater than or equal to `2.0.5`.

## FORMAT
The JSON format of an envioronment is as follows:

    {
      "name": "dev",
      "description": "The development environment",
      "cookbook_versions": {
        "couchdb": "= 11.0.0"
      },
      "json_class": "Chef::Environment",
      "chef_type": "environment",
      "default_attributes": {
        "apache2": { "listen_ports": [ "80", "443" ] }
      },
      "override_attributes": {
        "aws_s3_bucket": "production"
      }
    }

The Ruby format of an environment is as follows:

    name "dev"
    description "The development environment"
    cookbook_versions  "couchdb" => "= 11.0.0"
    default_attributes "apache2" => { "listen_ports" => [ "80", "443" ] }
    override_attributes "aws_s3_bucket" => "production"


## SEE ALSO
   __knife-node(1)__ __knife-cookbook(1)__ __knife-role(1)__
  <http://docs.chef.io/environments.html>
  <http://docs.chef.io/cookbook_versions.html>

## AUTHOR
   Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@opscode.com> with many contributions from the community.

## DOCUMENTATION
   This manual page was written by Daniel DeLeo <dan@opscode.com>.
   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## CHEF
   Knife is distributed with Chef. <http://docs.chef.io>
