knife-search(1) -- Find objects on a Chef Server by query
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __search INDEX QUERY__ _(options)_

  * `-a`, `--attribute ATTR`:
    Show only one attribute
  * `-i`, `--id-only`:
    Show only the ID of matching objects
  * `-q`, `--query QUERY`:
    The search query; useful to protect queries starting with -
  * `-R`, `--rows INT`:
    The number of rows to return
  * `-r`, `--run-list`:
    Show only the run list
  * `-o`, `--sort SORT`:
    The order to sort the results in
  * `-b`, `--start ROW`:
    The row to start returning results at
  * `-m`, `--medium`:
    Display medium sized output when searching nodes using the default
    summary format
  * `-l`, `--long`:
    Display long output when searching nodes using the default summary
    format

## DESCRIPTION

Search is a feature of the Chef Server that allows you to use a
full-text search engine to query information about your infrastructure
and applications. You can utilize this service via search calls in a
recipe or the knife search command.  The search syntax is based on
Lucene.


## INDEXES

Search indexes are a feature of the Chef Server and the search
sub-command allows querying any of the available indexes using SOLR
query syntax. The following data types are indexed for search:

  * _node_
  * _role_
  * _environment_
  * _clients_
  * _data bag_

Data bags are indexed by the data bag's name. For example, to search a
data bag named "admins":

    knife search admins "field:search_pattern"

## QUERY SYNTAX

Queries have the form `field:search_pattern` where `field` is a key in
the JSON description of the relevant objects (nodes, roles,
environments, or data bags).  Both `field` and `search_pattern` are
case-sensitive.  `search_pattern` can be an exact, wildcard,
range, or fuzzy match (see below).  The `field` supports exact
matching and limited wildcard matching.

Searches will return the relevant objects (nodes, roles, environments,
or data bags) where the `search_pattern` matches the object's value of
`field`.

### FIELD NAMES

Field names are the keys within the JSON description of the object
being searched.  Nested Keys can be searched by placing an underscore
("_") between key names.

### WILDCARD MATCHING FOR FIELD NAMES

The field name also has limited support for wildcard matching. Both
the "*" and "?" wildcards (see below) can be used within a field name;
however, they cannot be the first character of the field name.

### EXACT MATCHES
Without any search modifiers, a search returns those fields for which
the `search_pattern` exactly matches the value of `field` in the JSON
description of the object.

### WILDCARD MATCHES

Search support both single- and multi-character wildcard searches
within a search pattern.

'?' matches exactly one character.

'*' matches zero or more characters.

### RANGE MATCHES
Range searches allows one to match values between two given values.  To
match values between X and Y, inclusively, use square brackets:

    knife search INDEX 'field:[X TO Y]

To match values between X and Y, exclusively, use curly brackets:

    knife search INDEX 'field:{X TO Y}'

Values are sorted in lexicographic order.

### FUZZY MATCHES

Fuzzy searches allows one to match values based on the Levenshtein
Distance algorithm.  To perform a fuzzy match, append a tilda (~) to
the search term:

    knife search INDEX 'field:term~'

This search would return nodes whose `field` was 'perm' or 'germ'.

### BOOLEAN OPERATORS

The boolean operators NOT, AND, and OR are supported.  To find values
of `field` that are not X:

    knife search INDEX 'field:(NOT X)'

To find records where `field1` is X and `field2` is Y:

    knife search INDEX 'field1:X AND field2:Y'

To find records where `field` is X or Y:

    knife search INDEX 'field:X OR field:Y'

### QUOTING AND SPECIAL CHARACTERS

In order to avoid having special characters and escape sequences
within your search term interpreted by either Ruby or the shell,
enclose them in single quotes.

Search terms that include spaces should be enclosed in double-quotes:

    knife search INDEX 'field:"term with spaces"'

The following characters must be escaped:

    + - && || ! ( ) { } [ ] ^ " ~ * ? : \

## EXAMPLES

Find the nodes with the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN)
www.example.com:

    knife search node 'fqdn:www.example.com'

Find the nodes running a version of Ubuntu:

    knife search node 'platform:ubuntu*'

Find all nodes running CentOS in the production environment:

    knife search node 'chef_environment:production AND platform:centos'

## KNOWN BUGS

  * Searches against the client index return no results in most cases. (CHEF-2477)
  * Searches using the fuzzy match operator (~) produce an error. (CHEF-2478)

## SEE ALSO
   __knife-ssh__(1)
   <http://docs.chef.io/attributes.html>
   [Lucene Query Parser Syntax](http://lucene.apache.org/java/2_3_2/queryparsersyntax.html)

## AUTHOR
   Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@opscode.com> with many contributions from the community.

## DOCUMENTATION
   This manual page was written by Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>.
   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## CHEF
   Knife is distributed with Chef. <http://docs.chef.io>


