knife-configure(1) -- Generate configuration files for knife or Chef Client
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __configure__ [client] _(options)_

## DESCRIPTION
Generates a knife.rb configuration file interactively. When given the
--initial option, also creates a new administrative user.

## CONFIGURE SUBCOMMANDS ##

__knife configure__ _(options)_

  * `-i`, `--initial`:
    Create an initial API Client
  * `-r`, `--repository REPO`:
    The path to your chef-repo

Create a configuration file for knife. This will prompt for values to
enter into the file. Default values are listed in square brackets if no
other entry is typed. See __knife__(1) for a description of
configuration options.

__knife configure client__ _directory_

Read the _knife.rb_ config file and generate a config file suitable for
use in _/etc/chef/client.rb_ and copy the validation certificate into
the specified _directory_.

## EXAMPLES
  * On a freshly installed Chef Server, use _knife configure -i_ to
    create an administrator and knife configuration file. Leave the
    field blank to accept the default value. On most systems, the
    default values are acceptable.

    user@host$ knife configure -i  
    Please enter the chef server URL: [http://localhost:4000]  
    Please enter a clientname for the new client: [username]  
    Please enter the existing admin clientname: [chef-webui]  
    Please enter the location of the existing admin client's private key: [/etc/chef/webui.pem]  
    Please enter the validation clientname: [chef-validator]  
    Please enter the location of the validation key: [/etc/chef/validation.pem]  
    Please enter the path to a chef repository (or leave blank):  
    Creating initial API user...  
    Created (or updated) client[username]  
    Configuration file written to /home/username/.chef/knife.rb  

    This creates a new administrator client named _username_, writes
    a configuration file to _/home/username/.chef/knife.rb_, and the
    private key to _/home/username/.chef/username.pem_. The
    configuration file and private key may be copied to another system
    to facilitate administration of the Chef Server from a remote
    system. Depending on the value given for the Chef Server URL, you
    may need to modify that setting after copying to a remote host.

## SEE ALSO
   __knife__(1) __knife-client__(1)

## AUTHOR
   Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@opscode.com> with many contributions from the community.

## DOCUMENTATION
   This manual page was written by Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>.
   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## CHEF
   Knife is distributed with Chef. <http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home>

