knife-role(1) -- Group common configuration settings
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __role__ _sub-command_ _(options)_

## ROLE SUB-COMMANDS
The following `role` subcommands are available:

## LIST
__knife role list__ _(options)_

  * `-w`, `--with-uri`:
    Show corresponding URIs

List roles.

## SHOW
__knife role show ROLE__ _(options)_

  * `-a`, `--attribute ATTR`:
    Show only one attribute

Show a specific role.

## CREATE
__knife role create ROLE__ _(options)_

  * `-d`, `--description`:
    The role description

Create a new role.

## EDIT
__knife role edit ROLE__ _(options)_

Edit a role.

## FROM FILE
__knife role from file FILE__ _(options)_

Create or update a role from a role Ruby DSL (`.rb`) or JSON file.

## DELETE
__knife role delete ROLE__ _(options)_

Delete a role.

## BULK DELETE
__knife role bulk delete REGEX__ _(options)_

Delete roles on the Chef Server based on a regular expression. The regular expression (_REGEX_) should be in quotes, not in //'s.

## DESCRIPTION
Roles provide a mechanism to group repeated configuration settings.
Roles are data structures that contain __default\_attributes__, and
__override_attributes__, which are nested hashes of configuration
settings, and a __run_list__, which is an ordered list of recipes and
roles that should be applied to a host by chef-client.

__default_attributes__ will be overridden if they conflict with a value
on a node that includes the role. Conversely, __override_attributes__
will override any values set on nodes that apply them.

When __chef-client__(8) configures a host, it will "expand" the
__run_list__ included in that host's node data. The expansion process
will recursively replace any roles in the run\_list with that role's
run\_list.

## SEE ALSO
   __knife-node(1)__ __knife-environment(1)__
   <http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Roles>
   <http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Attributes>

## AUTHOR
   Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@opscode.com> with many contributions from the community.

## DOCUMENTATION
   This manual page was written by Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>.
   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## CHEF
   Knife is distributed with Chef. <http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home>

