knife-community-site(1) -- Install and update open source cookbooks
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __community site__ _sub-command_ _(options)_

## COMMUNITY SITE SUB-COMMANDS

`knife community site` provides the following subcommands:

## INSTALL

__community site install COOKBOOK [VERSION]__ _(options)_

  * `-D`, `--skip-dependencies `:
    Skip automatic installation of dependencies.
  * `-o`, `--cookbook-path PATH`:
    Install cookbooks to PATH
  * `-B`, `--branch BRANCH`:
    Default branch to work with [defaults to master]

Uses git(1) version control in conjunction with the Opscode Chef
Community Site to install community contributed cookbooks to your
local cookbook repository. Running `knife community site install` does
the following:

1. A new "pristine copy" branch is created in git for tracking the
   upstream;
2. All existing cookbooks are removed from the branch;
3. The cookbook is downloaded from the community site in tarball form;
4. The downloaded cookbook is untarred, and its contents commited via git;
5. The pristine copy branch is merged into the master branch.

By installing cookbook with this process, you can locally modify the
upstream cookbook in your master branch and let git maintain your
changes as a separate patch.  When an updated upstream version becomes
available, you will be able to merge the upstream changes while
maintaining your local modifications.

Unless _--skip-dependencies_ is specified, the process is applied
recursively to all the cookbooks _COOKBOOK_ depends on (via metadata
_dependencies_).

## DOWNLOAD

__knife community site download COOKBOOK [VERSION]__ _(options)_

  * `-f`, `--file FILE`:
    The filename to write to
  * `--force`:
    Force download deprecated cookbook

Downloads a specific cookbook from the Opscode Chef Community site,
optionally specifying a certain version.

## LIST

__knife community site list__ _(options)_

  * `-w`, `--with-uri`:
    Show corresponding URIs

Lists available cookbooks from the Community site.

## SEARCH

__knife community site search QUERY__ _(options)_

Searches for available cookbooks matching the specified query.

## SHARE

__knife community site share COOKBOOK CATEGORY__ _(options)_

  * `-k`, `--key KEY`:
    API Client Key
  * `-u`, `--user USER`:
    API Client Username
  * `-o`, `--cookbook-path PATH:PATH`:
    A colon-separated path to look for cookbooks in

Uploads the specified cookbook using the given category to the Opscode
Chef Community Site. Requires a login user and certificate for the
Opscode Chef Community Site. By default, knife will use the username
and API key you've configured in your configuration file; otherwise
you must explicitly set these values on the command line or use an
alternate configuration file.

## UNSHARE

__knife community site unshare COOKBOOK__

Stops sharing the specified cookbook on the Opscode Chef Community
Site.

## SHOW

__knife community site show COOKBOOK [VERSION]__ _(options)_

Shows information from the site about a particular cookbook.

## DESCRIPTION

The Opscode Chef Community site, <http://community.opscode.com/>, is a
cookbook distribution service operated by Opscode. This service
provides users with a central location to publish cookbooks for
sharing with other community members.

`knife community site` commands provide an interface to the site's
HTTP API. For commands that read data from the API, no account is
required. In order to upload cookbooks using the `knife community site
share` command, you must create an account on the community site and
configure your credentials via command line option or in your knife
configuration file.

## EXAMPLES

Uploading cookbooks to the Opscode Chef Community Site:

    knife community site share example Other -k ~/.chef/USERNAME.pem -u USERNAME

## SEE ALSO

   __knife-cookbook(1)__
   <http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks>

## AUTHOR

   Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@opscode.com> with many contributions from the community.

## DOCUMENTATION

   This manual page was written by Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com>.

   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this
   document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## CHEF

   Knife is distributed with Chef. <http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home>
