chef-solr(8) -- Runs as Chef's search server
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__chef-solr__ _(options)_

  * `-c`, `--config CONFIG`:
    The configuration file to use
  * `-d`, `--daemonize`:
    Daemonize the process
  * `-g`, `--group GROUP`:
    Group to set privilege to
  * `-l`, `--log_level LEVEL`:
    Set the log level (debug, info, warn, error, fatal)
  * `-L`, `--logfile LOGLOCATION`:
    Set the log file location, defaults to STDOUT - recommended for daemonizing
  * `-P`, `--pid PIDFILE`:
    Set the PID file location, defaults to /tmp/chef-solr.pid
  * `-D`, `--solr-data-dir PATH`:
    Where the Solr data lives
  * `-x`, `--solor-heap-size SIZE`:
    Set the size of the Java Heap
  * `-H`, `--solr-home-dir PATH`:
    Solr home directory
  * `-j`, `--java-opts OPTS`:
    Raw options passed to Java
  * `-x`, `--solor-heap-size`:
    Set the size of the Java Heap
  * `-W`, `--solr-jetty-dir PATH`:
    Where to place the Solr Jetty instance
  * `-u`, `--user USER`:
    User to set privilege to
  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Show chef-solr version
  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show this message

## DESCRIPTION

Chef-solr provides search service for Chef. You need to have both
chef-solr and chef-expander-cluster running in order for search to work.

__Installation__

Make sure you backed up your data if you are upgrading from a previous version.
Run chef-solr-installer to upgrade your Chef Solr installation. Answer "yes"
when prompted for confirmation. The process should look like this:

    yourshell> chef-solr-installer
    Configuration setting solr_heap_size is unknown and will be ignored

    Chef Solr is already installed in /var/chef/solr
    Do you want to overwrite the current install? All existing Solr data will be lost. [y/n] y
    Removing the existing Chef Solr installation
      rm -rf /var/chef/solr
      rm -rf /var/chef/solr-jetty
      rm -rf /var/chef/solr/data
    Creating Solr Home Directory
      mkdir -p /var/chef/solr
      entering /var/chef/solr
      tar zxvf /Users/ddeleo/opscode/chef/chef-solr/solr/solr-home.tar.gz
    Creating Solr Data Directory
      mkdir -p /var/chef/solr/data
    Unpacking Solr Jetty
      mkdir -p /var/chef/solr-jetty
      entering /var/chef/solr-jetty
      tar zxvf /Users/ddeleo/opscode/chef/chef-solr/solr/solr-jetty.tar.gz

    Successfully installed Chef Solr.
    You can restore your search index using `knife index rebuild`

## SEE ALSO

__chef-expander-cluster__(8)

Full documentation for Chef and chef-server is located on the Chef
Docs site, http://docs.chef.io/.

## AUTHOR

Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@ospcode.com> of Opscode
(http://www.opscode.com),  with contributions from the community.  This
manual page was written by Joshua Timberman  <joshua@opscode.com>  with
help2man.  Permission  is  granted  to copy, distribute and / or modify
this document under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the Apache 2.0 License  can  be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses/Apache-2.0.
