chef-server-webui(8) -- Start the Chef Server merb application slice providing Web User Interface (Management Console).
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__chef-server-webui__ _(options)_

  * `-u`, `--user USER`:
    This  flag  is  for having chef-server-webui run as a user other than the
    one currently logged in. Note: if you set this you must also provide a
    --group option for it to take effect.
  * `-G`, `--group GROUP`:
    This flag is for having chef-server-webui run as a group other than the
    one currently logged in. Note: if you set this you  must also provide a
    --user option for it to take effect.
  * `-d`, `--daemonize`:
    This will run a single chef-server-webui in the background.
  * `-N`, `--no-daemonize`:
    This will allow you to run a cluster in console mode.
  * `-c`, `--cluster-nodes NUM_MERBS`:
    Number of merb daemons to run for chef-server-webui.
  * `-I`, `--init-file FILE`:
    File to use for initialization on load, defaults to config/init.rb.
  * `-p`, `--port PORTNUM`:
    Port to run chef-server-webui on, defaults to 4040. Additional nodes (-c)
    listen on incrementing port numbers.
  * `-o`, `--socket-file FILE`:
    Socket  file  to  run  chef-server-webui on, defaults to
    [Merb.root]/log/merb.sock. This is for web servers, like thin, that use
    sockets. Specify this *only* if you *must*.
  * `-s`, `--socket SOCKNUM`:
    Socket number to run chef-server-webui on, defaults to 0.
  * `-n`, `--name NAME`:
    Set the name of the application. This is used in the process title and
    log file names.
  * `-P`, `--pid PIDFILE`:
    PID file, defaults to [Merb.root]/log/merb.main.pid for the master
    process and[Merb.root]/log/merb.[port number].pid for  worker processes.
    For clusters, use %s to specify where in the file chef-server-webui
    should place the port number. For instance: -P myapp.%s.pid.
  * `-h`, `--host HOSTNAME`:
    Host to bind to (default is 0.0.0.0).
  * `-m`, `--merb-root PATH_TO_APP_ROOT`:
    The path to the Merb.root for the app you want to run
    (default is current working directory).
  * `-a`, `--adapter ADAPTER`:
    The rack adapter to use to run chef-server-webui (default is mongrel)
    [mongrel, emongrel, thin, ebb, fastcgi, webrick].
  * `-R`, `--rackup FILE`:
    Load an alternate Rack config file (default is config/rack.rb).
  * `-i`, `--irb-console`:
    This flag will start chef-server-webui in irb console mode. All your models
    and other classes will be available for you in an irb session.
  * `-S`, `--sandbox`:
    This flag will enable a sandboxed irb console. If your ORM supports
    transactions, all edits will be rolled back on exit.
  * `-l`, `--log-level LEVEL`:
    Log levels can be set to any of these options:
    debug < info < warn < error < fatal (default is info).
  * `-L`, `--log LOGFILE`:
    A string representing the logfile to use. Defaults to
    [Merb.root]/log/merb.[main].log for the master process and
    [Merb.root]/log/merb[port number].logfor worker processes.
  * `-e`, `--environment STRING`:
    Environment to run Merb under [development, production, testing]
    (default is development).
  * `-r`, `--script-runner ['RUBY CODE'| FULL_SCRIPT_PATH]`:
    Command-line option to run scripts and/or code in the chef-server-webui
    app.
  * `-K`, `-graceful PORT or all`:
    Gracefully kill chef-server-webui proceses by port number.
    Use chef-server -K all to gracefully kill all merbs.
  * `-k`, `--kill PORT`:
    Force kill one merb worker by port number. This will cause the worker
    to be respawned.
  * `--fast-deploy`:
    Reload the code, but not yourinit.rb or gems.
  * `-X`, `--mutex on/off`:
    This flag is for turning the mutex lock on and off.
  * `-D`, `--debugger`:
    Run chef-server-webui using rDebug.
  * `-V`, `--verbose`:
    Print extra information.
  * `-C`, `--console-trap`:
    Enter an irb console on ^C.
  * `-?`, `-H`, `--help`:
    Show this help message.

## DESCRIPTION

The Chef Server WebUI (Management Console) is a Merb application slice.
The default listen port is 4040.

The Management Console is Chef Server's web interface. Nodes, roles,
cookbooks, data bags, and API clients can be managed through the Management
Console. Search can also be done on the console.

In order to start using the Management Console, you need to first create
a user or change the default password on the "admin" user.

The default credentials are:

- `Username`: admin
- `Password`: p@ssw0rd1

## SEE ALSO

Full documentation for Chef and chef-server-webui (Management Console)
is located on the Chef docs site, http://docs.chef.io/.

## AUTHOR

Chef was written by Adam Jacob <adam@ospcode.com> of Opscode
(http://www.opscode.com), with contributions from the  community. This
manual page was written by Joshua Timberman <joshua@opscode.com> with
help2man for the Debian project (but may be used by others). Permission
is granted to copy, distribute and / or modify this document under the
terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the Apache 2.0 License can be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses/Apache-2.0.
