knife-client(8) -- Chef Server REST API utility
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

__knife__ __client__ _sub-command_ _(options)_

## CLIENT SUB-COMMANDS

Clients are entities that communicate with the Chef Server API.

__client bulk delete REGEX__ _(options)_

Delete clients on the Chef Server based on a regular expression. The regular expression (_REGEX_) should be in quotes, not in //'s.

__client create CLIENT__ _(options)_

  * `-a`, `--admin    `:
    Create the client as an admin
  * `-f`, `--file FILE`:
    Write the key to a file

Create a new client. This generates an RSA keypair. The private key will be displayed on _STDOUT_ or written to the named file. The public half will be stored on the Server. For _chef-client_ systems, the private key should be copied to the system as `/etc/chef/client.pem`.

Admin clients should be created for users that will use _knife_ to access the API as an administrator. The private key will generally be copied to `~/.chef/CLIENT.pem` and referenced in the `knife.rb` configuration file.

__client delete CLIENT__ _(options)_

Deletes a registered client.

__client edit CLIENT__ _(options)_

Edit a registered client.

__client list__ _(options)_

  * `-w`, `--with-uri`:
      Show corresponding URIs

List all registered clients.

__client reregister CLIENT__ _(options)_

  * `-f`, `--file FILE`:
    Write the key to a file

Regenerate the RSA keypair for a client. The public half will be stored on the server and the private key displayed on _STDOUT_ or written to the named file.

__client show CLIENT__ _(options)_

  * `-a`, `--attribute ATTR`:
    Show only one attribute

Show a client.


